My Role: 
For the ISPMxAppDev Project, I am one of the Project Managers assigned. To be frank, I always assumed the position of leader in almost every project/group activity we had, and almost all of that went well when I was the leader, so, I have faith in my skills as a leader because from what I’ve experienced. 
However, I just realized that being a Project Manager is beyond being a leader. It’s all about managing people (which is quite challenging because I can’t even manage myself well sometimes), and our work, monitoring progress, and ensuring that everything falls into place. It’s a lot of responsibility and accountability that is not to be taken lightly. 
Although I somehow know how to talk to people and make them work– I was able to drive changes to our project one at a time. As one of the Project Managers, I believe I contributed to the betterment of the Project by: conducting Daily Scrum meetings, asking for my team’s progress, motivating the team, assisting them in various ways, and taking care of our project documentation. 

As a Project Manager, some virtues one must possess are patience (do not ever be frustrated and get personal emotion out of control, be patient and understand what, why, and how certain things happened), understanding (understanding each member’s preferences, and mode of work), reliability (the art of being reliable, of course, as a Project Manager.). 
Taking into account these virtues made me sane during the whole project initiation process and made the challenges I faced a bit more bearable. 

Teamwork Experience:
My group now is indeed one of the best teams I’ve ever had, with powerful Lead Developers and UI/UX and zealous SQAs, I thought at the beginning is nothing could go wrong with this team. 
We established good communication points, we had short meetings every day except Wednesday and Weekends (December Break included), I could say that we didn’t lack any communication at all, what lacked was the understanding and comprehension of some important things that needed to be addressed as soon as possible (even the little things that just compounded over time– like, project documentations and SQA documents ). 
One of the improvements I would like to inject this time is to entertain more questions, engage in meaningful conversations (as long as it’s connected with the project), and ask for more suggestions, insights, or ideas for the betterment of not only the project but also us, as a student who will be going on a different path soon (our capstone). 
Overall, I liked how our team harmonized and showcased coherence with one another, the tasks were well-distributed, and each individual did their parts well, we collaborated and just worked in sync. Even though the team has faced something tantamount to “Major Revision”, we are much more excited about our project’s potential use and implementation on the school premises. 

Personal Growth and Discipline:
As a Project Manager, I want to be more strict. I noticed that I went lenient and easygoing in our past project phase because I am still trying to find the point where I can spur the moment and be tough, and I feel bad when I am being strict :((. 
However, I realize the worth of being strict (it offers advantages such as early/on-time deliverables, increased authority, and unwavering control.) 
Aside from being more strict, I want to become more responsible, I want to grow and not let my indulgence get ahead of me. 

<33 
